Jake Gutstein: I I, Neil Neil, is actually my college professor. So I had a good understanding, a good understanding, not like a great understanding, but a good understanding of like the jobs process and understanding latent demand in market. So like, if your product isn't there, how are people buying? How are they behaving
Jake Gutstein: and that allowed us to essentially create a pretty large top of funnel
Jake Gutstein: But when we would drive people into the product going into program, it was like, you know, they use the term like leaky faucet, but like this was just a
Jake Gutstein: a pipe like it would just shoot people through the product, and like we couldn't really get anybody to stay. And so, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you were really good at getting them to show up like really good at it.
Jake Gutstein: Good at getting them to show.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Reviews and stuff like what Graham was doing.
Jake Gutstein: Right? Right? So we have on the order of like, hundreds of thousands of organic followers online. And that's like consistently expanded. And we've consistently been able to speak to that audience. In time. And so good at speaking to the audience, I mean, I can double down. I can talk about zest all day, and like what
Jake Gutstein: that actually entailed. But the reality was that
Jake Gutstein: it took 3 seconds to look at the thing that we were doing and realize that, like there was, we hadn't figured anything. We hadn't de-risked anything. We were just like, all right, people like cooking content online. That was, I would call it an unsophisticated way. But honestly, no one owes me anything in terms of attention. So it's like that was all you got from looking at what we were doing.
Jake Gutstein: and so our techstars experience was largely centered around, operationalizing
Jake Gutstein: what we had going on, making sure that the pipe turned into at the very least, something shaped like a bucket. And then, like, set our setting ourselves up from there to be able to
Jake Gutstein: continue to tighten the thing, continue to make it more effective.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great. And so from there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if there was anything that you wish you had known going through techstars or given your experience now, working with some of our companies. You think this group needs to hear
Neal Sáles-Griffin: would love to unpack that from you.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah,
Jake Gutstein: I think it's really important to recognize that you guys are one of, is it 12?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 10.
Jake Gutstein: 10. You guys are one of 10, right? And so the dynamics in this room are going to be different than
Jake Gutstein: other companies seeking accelerators at your stage. You look at like
Jake Gutstein: Yc, lets as just a competitor like. Let's in 260 companies at once. So there's a massive success bias. You're going to see the posts from. You might even have friends. If you're in the Bay area who are raising from Yc. They will very quickly write companies off. The superpower of this program is the extent to which Neil and his team are actually invested in the success of your business. Not the success of raising around. It's going to come clear over time. But like
Jake Gutstein: you can lead a horse to water. So like it's you're just gonna
Jake Gutstein: to to the extent that you guys are able to actually take advantage of it ultimately will be, is is within your own control and within your own agency. You gotta figure out what the right questions are to ask. You got to lean in when they're pointing you in the right direction. I mean, Neil has done this, for
Jake Gutstein: I I would say, like maybe the preeminent expert in terms of companies at this early stage, and being able to ride that 0 to one
Jake Gutstein: phase out and and iron out what that journey looks like. Such that you're set up for success. And so, just making sure that you're set well set up for it. I think that, like
Jake Gutstein: best analogy that I heard, and Neil kind of reminded me of the he had never heard this story, I guess, until last night. Did Mert remember this or no?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He did. He did remember it. He was like, that was a good line. Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, so like, the the reality is like, you guys are unbelievable high school athletes who just got a division, one scholarship to a great college.
Jake Gutstein: and
Jake Gutstein: that's all you got. Like you got a d 1 scholarship. You gotta actually then play 4 years of college.
Jake Gutstein: then get scouted. And then, even after that, there is a very small percentage of who you are that will ultimately end up going pro. And it's like.
Jake Gutstein: what do you think the differentiator is between the athletes that get the d 1 scholarship and go pro and don't go pro are. There are like there's a certain amount that's intangible. That's going to be outside of your control. It's noise. Ignore it. Then there's a certain amount that's within your control. Why not recognize that, and then take advantage of it to do the absolute most that you can to succeed, to put yourself in a position to succeed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great alright. So, by the way, I wanted to open it up. So you all can talk to Jake. This is meant to be conversational. I wanted to tee up a few talking points for him. Just you kind of gauge of you know where he's coming from in his perspective. I wanted him to weigh in on his tech, start experience and give you all advice. I want you all to see and learn more about how he runs his business because it stands out to all of us and to any founders who meet Jake, and I think that's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one of the proxies for his success, not only his business and its traction, and how hard they're working, but also how he leads his business, and how he chooses to manage and run it, which I think you all benefit from knowing. And then.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: lastly, anything else that you all have on your minds, that you'd like to ask one of our more, you know, successful founders currently, who've been through the techstars experience. So those are my big 3 goals for this session. But I'll take a pause. There. Does anyone have any initial questions for Jake, or things that you'd like to learn or unpack from his experience? Neural defend.
Jake Gutstein: Is this a deep fake company.
piyushverma: Yes, yes, we are.
Jake Gutstein: Alright!
piyushverma: Hi! Hi, Jake! Nice to meet you, and
Jake Gutstein: You guys again.
piyushverma: Yeah, thank you so much for you know the introduction. I I have a lot of questions, but I think I'll I'll bring those questions later in the conversation. But right now
piyushverma: I wanted to start with the something that I've been wanting to ask a successful textures alum, which is, how do we make the best out of these 3 months?
piyushverma: And yeah, how do we make the most out of our time at techstars?
Jake Gutstein: Yeah,
Jake Gutstein: this is a great question, and I'm going to be transparent also, when I'm let, when I feel I'm less, not necessarily qualified. But there are going to be answers where I'm an N of one right? I'm colored by my own personal experience and bias. This one I actually feel like I'm not it is all right in front of you.
Jake Gutstein: And so making sure that you're doing the right work, you're you're showing up and focusing on the right. Things are critical.
Jake Gutstein: Because this this team has organized a program that is
Jake Gutstein: optimize like it's optimized it positions you for success moving forward. So they've done the heavy lifting there. And so it's just important. If you're showing up. And you haven't done that or you're not present, you're checking email during these times. All of that like, you are only going to ultimately do yourself a disservice.
Jake Gutstein: I think 2 rules of thumb that I live by in my business, and
Jake Gutstein: like, this is just the fundamental way that my team operates is we show up on time. We value each other's time like we respect it. I don't know how many people are in this room. What is it? 22. But like there are 22 people. So if you show up a minute late. That is 22 min of wasted time collectively, and like recognizing and operating that way the fact that, like I'm not doing this for my own time, but I'm doing it for other people's critical. So show up on time, and then the other is upholding verbal commitments.
Jake Gutstein: So I I count that as what happens right now with Neil. I don't know what the deadline is that you guys discussed for this financial modeling thing. But like, it's like, Yeah, I'll get it to you in advance of this call. Get it to him and events. This call how you do. One thing is how you do everything. So it's gonna be like, if you're not doing it there. And you're recognizing. But it's like, Oh, but I'm busy. I'm doing it. You're doing it in other areas where you don't recognize that you're doing it. If you can tighten in. My. The way that I found felt was if I could tighten both of those
Jake Gutstein: elements, and I was showing up and being as present as possible and and putting myself in for what the program team was asking me. In addition to operating my business like, you will get the most out of tech stars if you get distracted by noise and like the What ifs and why not? Why is this not the way here or there, like it's going to be very distracting very easily.
Jake Gutstein: And that that may throw you off and so I think that it's like lean in show up on time and and uphold your verbal commitments, and if you can't let them know as early as possible, so adjust those.
piyushverma: Thank you.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, for sure.
Jake Gutstein: Double click. Also, if anything I ever say is, I'm I'm over. This is my over caffeinated part of the day. So my like.
Jake Gutstein: I'm gonna be having like several conversations at once.
Andrew Fernandes: I have a quick question. So when you said be sure you're focused on the right things. Do you mean just in terms of things like being on time being good to your word, etc, or the specific, I guess tangible
Andrew Fernandes: facets to focus on that you had in mind.
Jake Gutstein: What is tangible or tactical will be specific to you, and where your business is.
Jake Gutstein: So the generic again show up, uphold those verbal commitments. But
Jake Gutstein: Neil has an expression slow, is smooth and smooth, is fast, it holds true. Being able to
Jake Gutstein: if you have no like. I I think, in terms of systems, typically, and it's like, if you don't have systems or ways to slow yourself down. What somebody says to you is going to be the most important thing. The product idea you have today is going to be the best, the most important and pressing product idea that is facing your business, the best opportunity that your business has for improvement. That'll kill you because it's just a hamster wheel, and it also like it's not necessarily the best way to spend your time. I think like
Jake Gutstein: this is not to say that there isn't grunt work because there is, but making sure that you're you have agency and control over how you're deploying
Jake Gutstein: your mind. Space like your headspace is, gonna be critical.
Jake Gutstein: I I have different ways that I'll do that for different areas of the business. And so it it generally is specific. You know, it's going to range from week to week operations for us. We have culinary operations, product marketing like these things then end up breaking down in the specificities of zest as well.
Jake Gutstein: What's going on, Antoine? It's nice to put a face to the name.
Antoine: Yes, same here.
Antoine: I guess the variation of that question is, I think I and I think it's the case among all companies here.
Antoine: Most of them we do have actually customers, business, etcetera, or kind of existing motions in progress. And I I know Alex and I were talking about that as we as we move into textiles.
Antoine: it's pretty clear that it's going to be a pretty involved next 3 months with tech stars. And as we're thinking about like what our goals, etc, I'm thinking. Like, should we? Instead of increasing initially, we thought about it. Okay? Oh, and we're going this money that we were not expecting, and the support that we were not expecting. Let's let's increase the objectives for the 1st semester.
Antoine: And I'm kind of thinking, should we? Kind of, okay, let's carve out. Let's decrease. So, for example, we had a number of pitch. We want to to do meetings. We want to to take, etc. Should you just take a step back? What would you do if you were us? And I, you know, don't worry. You won't commit us to it.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, you. But yeah.
Antoine: Should we kind of slow down and kind of exit a number of things we wanted to do, and to make space for that for textile. Or how do you think about it?
Jake Gutstein: We can double click if this language doesn't make sense. But
Jake Gutstein: who within you is making the decision?
Jake Gutstein: Are you making a decision out of fear or urgency.
Jake Gutstein: and oftentimes, if the answer is like, the amygdala is firing, and therefore we need to do this or do that. It will be a bad
Jake Gutstein: decision. And so, taking inventory over
Jake Gutstein: what are critical functions that you can't lose. You guys have real momentum, and you have real traction taking understanding a strategic outlook of like, listen, guys like it's like 13 like this is gonna come and go, really, really, quickly. And so it's making sure that there's
Jake Gutstein: you understand the pace that's necessary for your business
Jake Gutstein: and then communicate openly with the tech Stars team, both to understand what is happening right now, and it will be asked of you. If you ask them like what's on the horizon, or spell it out, they will spell it out for you in the world's most boring detail, like I know, like I, she will like literally tell you the minute the meeting minutes for something that's going to happen in 4 weeks from now. So it's like
Jake Gutstein: having that have that level of understanding to kind of, then understand how to set pace for the company. I wouldn't slow everything down when you're talking about conversations. I don't know who those conversations are with. But depending on whether or not they're helpful for the business.
Jake Gutstein: understand? Like the when it makes the most sense to do something, and then just slot it into that time, and don't think about it till that comes. I have like I have like notes that are gonna go out 3 months from now like, I just don't even think of it. My friends don't really don't realize, like sometimes I'm like texting them like from the future, like I from the past, like, I just like I I do. The. It's like weird stuff. But like it's just, it helps me kind of keep the slate clean.
Jake Gutstein: they will work with you is the other thing I I just. I know these people. So you got to push back with them. Because they will hold firm if they don't believe that it's in the right interest or best interest for your business, but like they will be flexible. If it is clear that the level of traction that you have demands or necessitates that you spend your time in a certain area of the business, and therefore you have to essentially adjust timelines around program.
Jake Gutstein: I just I know them. And I also happen to know how the program works. So I know that there's time there is. There does exist time for things to move around.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So I think what I'm hearing from you, Jake, is like Antoine. If there's more that you want to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's not out of the question that we could modify things, to make space for you, to accomplish those things
Neal Sáles-Griffin: during this program, if need be.
Jake Gutstein: But why are you doing it? Or if you're doing it out of like an ambiguity, a fear of ambiguity. And things aren't quite working right. And it's like, I just gotta throw as much shit at the wall as possible and see what sticks like that.
Jake Gutstein: I I at this point, and I could not. I. I'm telling you something that I was not skilled at in techstars like understanding like when it's just the engine is running hot, and that's not. And like, it's not to my benefit. It's just like I'm just doing things to do them. It's it may not be to your benefit, because then there there is ultimately unlimited. You're making trade-offs. Whether or not you want to accept it so like
Jake Gutstein: you could be spending that time elsewhere. Always.
Jake Gutstein: They're here to kind of go set you up almost on the right path to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, one of the 1st tests for that, Jake is actually typically we just kicked off our 1st jobs to be done conversation yesterday, and this is the time when founders go. Oh, I don't really need that.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, I know that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I I have. I have customers, and I I kinda know I have my own process for how I'm gonna do it, and like they're asking me to do a lot of extra interviews, and I don't really have time or space to do it, so maybe I'll have an intern do it, or something like that. So that's the kind of thing that comes up right now. So I thought I would just flag that and tee it up for you.
Jake Gutstein: No, I get it. Your businesses are all about to go under like, it's like, I, yeah, you know, it's it's difficult to understand or to maintain perspective on what is going to drive the most progress for the business, particularly when it's a multi-step endeavor. And you're you. It feels literally like scramble and shoot mode. It's like whack-mole. But like, let the program train you how to slow that down to a certain extent and take care of the most impactful work that you can.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Got it.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, Hi, Jake, thanks so much for being here. I think one of the things that you said really
Alex Nativelle: resonated with me, which was, you need to have system to slow you down instead of going forward.
Alex Nativelle: I think this is something. My system is mostly Antoine. But when you said, like you talk to someone. They tell you another id. And you're like, Wow, this is amazing. Well, it's like something really new. I had that a lot actually. And every time, you know, I'm like.
Alex Nativelle: 2 days after you're like, Oh, this was not such a good idea. But like in 2 in during 2 days. You're like, we need to do this and that and build a product in another way. And so when you said, you need to have system that slow down that really resonated with me. And I wanted to know more about like, what are those systems exactly like.
Jake Gutstein: Gonna take place. So like we like the program. Honestly, I, it may get into this. It's kind of like program, depend. But like there are super systems and subsystems. Right? You can break things down into more or more detailed component variables. I would say at the top level,
Jake Gutstein: we, our company operates on a fixed timeline in variable scope.
Jake Gutstein: So most people, when they're building will build a fixed scope, and then the time can extend or descend, which allows them to then sub in new projects as they come along. All of like it makes everything flow kind of very confusingly one into the other as a result of like.
Jake Gutstein: we decide that there are certain opportunities in the business. So right now, when I have an app that teaches people how to cook. Right? So like once people make a meal, it's very confusing where those recipes should go. At the same time, there's also a larger scale strategic initiative around like being able to bring any recipe from the Internet and bring it into zest.
Jake Gutstein: Both are going to demand that people are able to organize their kitchen. How much time do I have right now to dedicate both to the present minded problem? If you can't organize what you've made before or refine those things. You might not cook again in the future problem, which honestly, is a bigger opportunity for us.
Jake Gutstein: We decided 3 weeks. So like, we're giving this build 3 weeks. We cut a bunch of stuff to make sure that it could fit into those 3 weeks. And
Jake Gutstein: again, this is like gets more personal, but, like we will then look at, we'll audit essentially opportunities. The Friday before the end of those 3 weeks. Look at all the stuff that came up and decide like, no, this is the opportunity that next that's going to create the largest OP. Like scale improvement in the business. And then we move to that next thing, and we decide a budget or an appetite based on that.
Alex Nativelle: And so just just to make sure I understand you're like, all right. This is this opportunity. I have like 10 opportunities. We review them together. We decide one. And we're like, Okay, we're going to give us 3 weeks to build on that. And
Alex Nativelle: we we.
Alex Nativelle: I'm not sure.
Jake Gutstein: We have tried this so many times. The most recent fuck up was January. We try to do it with multiple things, and it and it we screwed up like literally things fall apart. And so it's like I can move. I can do a 6 week 3 things, or in
Jake Gutstein: 3 weeks one, and it's like, Oh, shoot totally. Take 3 things, but it will throw us off. Then there are like this. Then things
Jake Gutstein: get.
Jake Gutstein: We're all lean. So it's like you're gonna figure out like what are then overarching initiatives, things that you move in that fill the cracks of the extra time, because the reality is, you can't just remain focused on like one thing all the time. But that's like as it relates to like this.
Jake Gutstein: the cards moving.
Alex Nativelle: And but how do you handle the fact that maybe you pre, you plan for like 3 weeks. And after 3 weeks you're like, okay. We stopped. But we're like, in the middle of something.
Jake Gutstein: We, we literally we literally won't ship it. Those are the States.
Alex Nativelle: All right.
Jake Gutstein: We move on to the next thing.
Alex Nativelle: Okay.
Jake Gutstein: You've never, not shipped something for whatever it's worth.
Alex Nativelle: Thanks.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Meg.
Jake Gutstein: like, obviously, in deployment, also the one caveat that would like plus or minus like, there's going to be a plus or minus little bit of time. But this is like we don't extend weeks, or like even like most of a week.
Meg Hall: So I know today's call is supposed to be focused on how you run your business. So if this topic is off limits, just let me know, Neil, and we can save it for another time. But.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Not off limits. You're good. I don't even know what you're gonna ask. But you can ask Jake anything literally.
Meg Hall: Okay. Okay. So I just wanna know, you know, as somebody who's worried about like churn and getting people coming back to your business like, what kind of things have you set up in your product that keep people coming back and actually get it to be a sticky product that like gets people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, Jake, before you answer fully, I actually think what Meg just asked is a great tee up to actually opening up the the subject matter for the call. This is a really cool, because it's evolved over time. I know this since I've been watching your business over these years. Right. So if you don't mind answering the question in the spirit of the timeline, of how you've evolved from techstars to now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then, maybe we show them how you've evolved in a.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Adapted both on that subject. But then also other facets of your business. That'd be a really cool way to give them a a lay of the land, of how you're operating.
Jake Gutstein: Okay, I and I don't necessarily know. Here I can.
Jake Gutstein: came prepared. This is the one thing that I knew that I had to come prepared with but actually, before I like, toss that up
Jake Gutstein: the largest percent change that you will make in this direction was the talk that you guys did yesterday.
Jake Gutstein: So it's like, when are people using your product?
Jake Gutstein: it sounds like there is a baseline familiarity. So like the 1st thing that needs to happen is, when are people buying your product?
Jake Gutstein: Right? You got to start closing sales, because then revenue is going to go. The business will be sustained. You'll break even, or you'll be on the path to being able to have a sustainable business, and people will throw money at you which you'll have options to either take or like. You can build. A business like this is it's an important stage to be at. So when do people buy is critical. And then, like, what are they? What's going on in their lives like unpacking it from a sequential standpoint?
Jake Gutstein: When do they use? Is a different question. And that you need to study separately. To figure out when are they using it when they're not using it like what's causing them to fall through. So like me and my team would do research on this stuff and like.
Jake Gutstein: is there a way for me to like? Still, see everybody? Yeah,
Jake Gutstein: I I like we. We'll do everything. So this is like churn churn research that we did within the app right like. So we talk to users. We find that like there are things that are driving bad churn. These are like people who are heavy users of zest. Please don't share this outside. I know that we're recording all this stuff, but like
Jake Gutstein: if just the contents that are like within the whatever
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We'll we'll keep it confidential.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You. You've got our.
Jake Gutstein: So we'll hear stuff like, there aren't enough recipes in the app. You're gonna hear things that make sense from a business perspective. But, like.
Jake Gutstein: what's that mean? There aren't enough recipes. One is like we have for my business 400 recipes. So you're telling me that you cooked a recipe a day for over a year like I can tell that you didn't. And so it's like, why do we not have enough recipes? And when you talk to people like what you come to realize is like, now, I was like sitting on my couch with my wife watching TV, and I saw something that looked awesome or like Tiktok is another example. Like I saw a recipe. I went to zest to cook that recipe, and you didn't have it.
Jake Gutstein: It's not. There aren't enough recipes, because what it also could be is we weren't rotating the recipes around in the app, and it's like I see. I open it up every time, and it's like you never add new things but what that actually we do, we add them every week. So it's like what it is is.
Jake Gutstein: there's a finite set that people were running into. Starting to understand it through the lens of.
Jake Gutstein: There are like 3 reasons to build from a founder perspective like one is I really fucking love the product that I'm building. But that is fundamentally different from I really fucking love the customer that I'm building, for they're like very different things, and and people conflate the 2 of them easily. But whenever you find yourself conflating the 2 of them, you're wrong
Jake Gutstein: like it's good. You're gonna have to break those 2 apart because it means that you're leading with love product, because that's like the I'm giving my thing to the world dynamic, which is really important. It's gonna drive, good decision making in the business. But it is fundamentally different than like building out of the love of customer. That you'll run into. The 3rd is love of employee, like allowing or creating flourishing within the people that you work around.
Jake Gutstein: But, Neil, is this what you had in mind when I was showing stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: An anecdote came to mind that I want to make sure we address somehow, which is the comment you made to me about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because it feels relevant for this group that you.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Been around so many other founders who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have been through like place places like Yc, and what you're learning about the differentiator that gave you an advantage with respect to your customer, knowledge.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, I mean, like, so Neil mentioned it. I, I, me and my founding team went down to Chattanooga, Tennessee, for the better part of the past year. We built out of just a large office of an investor of ours. They fund mostly Yc companies, because they that's the bet that they've made, and I've watched Yc companies founded after me, and at the same time as me go under like already. And it's like this is in the past 14 months.
Jake Gutstein: and what it is is like this constant and frenzied scramble to find an answer that doesn't exist, causing you to essentially allocate time in seemingly like once you see it ridiculous ways, rather than just like kind of consistently they'll they'll
Jake Gutstein: I think, that you can dedicate your time, however, you feel best, but like you got to make sure that's in alignment with yourself, and you're doing it for the right reason. Again, I fear. Really, really seductive, really bad reason to spend time so like Meg, this is the most roundabout
Jake Gutstein: how to solve for churn answer. But it's like.
Jake Gutstein: I think, that that's a custom, a customer 1st and foremost a customer dynamics problem. And unless, like, you're really kind of narrowed in on that, I,
Jake Gutstein: the answer, should to the most part
Jake Gutstein: come forward a little bit, and then also there's no answer. And you're gonna like, it's just better. It's not
Jake Gutstein: done at any point.
Meg Hall: Yeah. And how do you build like virality and like stickiness, like assuming that like, it's not necessarily about like the churn, but like like for me. It's more of like I sign a company. But I also need to get, you know, all 100 of their users on board right, and I gotta get for each of those people I need to have. There be.
Jake Gutstein: Yes.
Meg Hall: Value for them. But, like I also need to like, there's always like everybody has a to do list. And how do I make sure that, like it's it's I want for them to adopt it, because they remember to, and that they're getting value out of it.
Jake Gutstein: This is like a really. So I'll hear.
Jake Gutstein: I think one of the values of this program is
Jake Gutstein: the question. It, I, I believe is being asked in reverse. So it's like you can't get people to you like
Jake Gutstein: you can understand their position on a really granular level and essentially position the product in such a way that they will obviously use it. This is like a classic B, 2 B thing is like, I sell to a customer, and then the the consumer is a different person, and it's really hard to drive adoption at a company. And so I'm not like saying that I envy the position in any way. Our customer and consumer typically are the same person.
Jake Gutstein: That, said
Jake Gutstein: Awesome, to close the sales, and I remember honestly your pitch as well and like you're like you have some really impressive Logos on that screen. But then it's like starting to gain access to and and study
Jake Gutstein: how the workflows of these people are progressing. What does the customer need to see to sign the contract. What does the consumer need to become aware of? And in what order? To actually like drive the adoption? You can find that out. Not by, I would say, like, don't study the use of your own
Jake Gutstein: product. I would look at successful adoption cases of other similar minded solutions. You're not trying to sell in that situation. What you're trying to do is like
Jake Gutstein: they're using some products. And they're not using your product. So it's like, what got them in the recent history to like actually start using these other things, because clearly, like
Jake Gutstein: they're not, you know, they're not whipping out the abacus and like sending carrier pigeon notes every day like they're using some forms of technology to accomplish goals for themselves.
Meg Hall: Yeah, yeah, maybe. I mean, actually what you just said resonated. But it's almost the opposite where I'm thinking back to like sometimes enterprise sales reps, like the people who have been around for a long time are the ones that are like the least likely to adopt new technology because they're just certain ways, you know, versus like the Bdrs, who are more young and like moldable, are willing to adopt new technology right? So it might be that, like a laggards and innovators thing where.
Meg Hall: like, I just have such a wide scope like, you know, one person we were looking at talking to today. She spent 3,700 minutes on the platform last month, like, so she's been in a lot, you know. So there are people who are like in love with it, and then other people who just.
Jake Gutstein: This is where, like I, I do think, though, dissociate from your product
Jake Gutstein: like in the past 3, like so jobs is going to be 5 steps. It's going to be creating screening criteria and learning objectives. It's sourcing the interviews. It's conducting the interviews, clustering what you've learned and then actually applying it to your business. And it's like you're gonna lose efficiency at every step in the process. When you're thinking about like the screening criteria for what you're going after like
Jake Gutstein: it sounds. If if this is the most, you know, there may be other things that ultimately are more pressing for you guys. If you need to close sales, for example. But, like in the past 3 months, have you started using a new technology like find people that have or and I don't know enough about your product. I just don't remember. So I I apologize for that but
Jake Gutstein: having those conversations to realize, like
Jake Gutstein: totally you have established people that aren't adopting you have. If this is a hypothesis, you have younger people who are more excited, but like we got to get way more specific than like that stuff that, like
Jake Gutstein: all here on the business pods, you know that from the people that, like the hindsight, is 2020 people like that get on and are like, well, obviously, Netflix was going to be successful. And it's like, Yeah, but we're the people in the room making Netflix successful. You know, we gotta like see that we? We have to have ways of like making this future less fuzzy.
Meg Hall: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: I got, I had a okay, sorry.
Meg Hall: No, I'm I'm all done. I was just saying thanks.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. No, for sure.
Ankur Toshniwal: Hey? Nice to nice to meet you, man. I appreciate you taking some time.
Jake Gutstein: Pleasure, as well.
Ankur Toshniwal: So. Well, so one of the things that I think I definitely think about is
Ankur Toshniwal: I I founded a company before this where I think I really tried to focus what I thought was like, Hey, I know a lot of founders trying big try and create really big things I was like, I want to really try and solve a small problem 1st and a cute one.
Ankur Toshniwal: I think in some ways what that also did, and it's kind of it has an interesting loop, whereas I also thought smaller in many ways, too, because of the problem I was trying to solve was small, and I wasn't as ambitious in what we could do for people.
Ankur Toshniwal: So when it comes to like like, you know, the way we see, harvest is, we don't want to be like a small company. Obviously, right? Like we're we're trying to build what we believe is the missing piece between businesses, and what perplexity could be, and what Chat Gpt could be? When it comes to sourcing web data.
Ankur Toshniwal: So I guess the the question is, how do we? Actually.
Ankur Toshniwal: you know, I think there's something to be said about balancing. You know the idea of going like slowing stuff down. But there is something to be said about Yc. Still returning, like, you know. Sure they have a lot of failures, but they also have some of the biggest so to be said about speed and urgency and that you know the the sometimes like, you know, replict founder even says, Hey.
Ankur Toshniwal: you know, sometimes when you're in ambiguity. Just doing stuff is better than not doing stuff because you get response from people. So
Ankur Toshniwal: I am curious how like you know
Ankur Toshniwal: how you view kind of all right. You're we're at this point of a company.
Ankur Toshniwal: We want to be like the next tier level company. Right? And how do you? What is the process of how? When do you take that break to reevaluate how to get there? And then you know what part of when you have 2 weeks lock in, or whatever it is, and what part of it do you actually like? All right? Actually, maybe we could be, we could be doing something way bigger. And so how do you like balance
Ankur Toshniwal: acting now and thinking bigger.
Jake Gutstein: This is awesome.
Jake Gutstein: From here on out. Don't say we're trying to build. We are building.
Jake Gutstein: Okay. Also, just like to point
Jake Gutstein: a little bit of person. Ycs, like 9, it's something like 92% of Ycs returns have come from 3 companies. So it's like.
Jake Gutstein: like, look over here at all the series A's. And look over here like, don't look at this hand, which is like a couple of really great returns. Not like to say that there are also excellent returns, particularly for founders for Yc. Built companies, and also the velocity of like. There are the positives that you are aware of are undeniable. Right? Like that's they're undeniable. But like, I think, that can be
Jake Gutstein: seductive. This is a great point
Jake Gutstein: there are like people will start meditating and
Jake Gutstein: come to this like notion of like emptiness and
Jake Gutstein: lose a sense of urgency in what they do. Like. It's like this kind of like weird, like misinterpretation of like how to
Jake Gutstein: practice mindfulness in a day to in a day to day life rather than being present in a moment and responsive.
Jake Gutstein: Similar a similar thing can take over here with, this type of thinking where people will like get super cerebral about it and never do. That's not what they're trying to teach, although, like it does like you see it every time, like there are going to be like people that are going to become way, too, over intellectualized in this pursuit. Like, don't lose track of the reason that you're doing this, but that also does is not an excuse to not do it at all.
Jake Gutstein: with regard that that's with regards to the speed and urgency piece. Got to maintain the vision.
Jake Gutstein: You gotta get more concrete on the vision. But like to get there, you gotta close deals. You gotta show me that you can get from like for us for our business. It's like, for the precede was like conceivably should prove to me that you can get to 10,000 customers, and then conceivably, in some way show that there's a hundred 1,000 customer business, but we can't work unless there's like a million paid users right? So like it's like I I
Jake Gutstein: the way that I would say it is like all of us in this room are the avatar, and there are different. You can bend in different ways, but it is kind of on you to realize what form to use in any given moment.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: I guess I wanted to. I want to maybe go a little deeper. There.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, yeah, please.
Ankur Toshniwal: It's like, okay, so we've we've
Ankur Toshniwal: we obviously what we're doing. I mean, I don't know if how much you've seen about harvest. We? We know that this is kind of a crowded space, right? We understand.
Ankur Toshniwal: At the same time, we know that there's this huge upside if we really crack this, this specific part of it. When we when we talk to like potential people, we want to bring on to the team especially because we're looking for an for an engineer right now, or like a.
Jake Gutstein: Yep.
Ankur Toshniwal: One of the things that kind of we get as feedback is like. You're too horizontal, right? You're too. You're too. You're too wide like you're crushed by big companies. And we also we understand that
Ankur Toshniwal: at the same time, we're trying to be one of those big ass companies. And so we know that the strategy has to be some version of Hey, pick a small segment and crush it and nail it, and then walk. Basically, you know, figure out the strategy of how you can move up the ladder and walk your way up right. But when you present that right, when when it comes to messaging.
Ankur Toshniwal: It's really tricky, because if you aim, if you say what you're trying to be or what what you're doing, sorry, not what you're trying to be, what you're doing.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, yeah
Ankur Toshniwal: sense. Then they're like, Oh, that's too big. And you know this thing. If you go too small, then it's too small. And so how? Where do? How do you.
Ankur Toshniwal: you know.
Ankur Toshniwal: I guess, put your messaging or your your mindset of like? This is what we're what what are we gonna do in this month? And then how do we, you know? Go up to that next level? And.
Jake Gutstein: There's like there's like a ton here, right? Because, like in one second, you're talking to a sales rep. And in the net, or sorry a future engineering hire. And in the next you're figuring out what to actually do with your right. These are like, you're gonna have to
Jake Gutstein: build different systems jobs is going to be really helpful. A system. I like jobs. It's been helpful for us is going to be useful because it's going to help you get significantly more specific on what the 1st people who are buying from you are going to be buying from you for such that when you sit down with that engineer. It's like, Yeah, you're totally right. But like, when it comes to us, all we're doing are
Jake Gutstein: like finding people who just experienced this this or that, all 3 of them, and like literally, I'm taking them out to like dinner the next night.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah. It's done.
Jake Gutstein: Buying me dinner.
Ankur Toshniwal: Here's part one, right? Part 2. We think this is next, here's part 3. And this is how we're a billion dollar company, right? Like that's that's or maybe just never get there. I don't know. Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: No, you'll get there. I it's it's kind of like
Jake Gutstein: when when laying it out. It depends what they're asking for, but like I don't
Jake Gutstein: like. People will sit down and be like. This is, this is what we're doing in Q 3 of this year. It's like, brother. You don't even know who your customer is. Yet, like, you guys can't close consistent revenue. Why are you like, how do you have a product roadmap for Q. 3, you know. I think at this like it's also antithetical to a certain extent to moving quickly.
Jake Gutstein: You got to make sure, like. Figure out who the customer is like when that buying moment is start building for them. And this thing will metastasize. It will literally like, be like, Okay, now, we can actually go right here and now we're going to go right here and now we're going to go right here in the critical like it will become apparent. But you need some way of continuous movement in an educated direction rather than just being like we are the exact same as all these other
Jake Gutstein: guys who are building in this space. Yet we will win, because I really care about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There was a time, Jake, where you actually had the the challenge I think Ankar just described. Right. Remember, we were talking about the future of zest and what it could become. And there was a phase, maybe it was like a year or 2 ago where you were envisioning beyond cooking.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right, and then eventually you kind of pulled that back, and then you you adjusted the scope and you said, what kind of business you're ultimately going to become. And it's focused on cooking again. But maybe a quick hint at that anecdote like that story of how you.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. And and I think that it's important also to highlight like this doesn't necessarily go away right? So like you're gonna have different conversations, and you'll feel yourself drifting too far in the big picture direction, and then you'll have to pull it back, or like, too far in in this little one. Yeah, we were stuck between being just like revolutionizing
Jake Gutstein: how people operate within their home kitchens, revolutionizing their relationships with food at home and being the way that people learn how to adult, basically like, so we're starting in food. And then we're going to move into other ways that people are figuring out how to adult. We're a generation that lacks agency type of situation. The reality is, I didn't necessarily know. So like, it's like, who am I talking to, and what do they need to hear in a certain situation? But like from a team perspective like.
Jake Gutstein: I'll tell you personally, like none of that was motivating to people on a day to day business like neither, and I still talk about becoming the operating system for how people engage with food in their kitchens, and it's like it's not. It's not that particularly helpful. I found in time that my team needs to hear my team's
Jake Gutstein: vision like some of my team's vision. I'm like, Yeah, that's summer. But like, it's like, you're, you're like that feels like you're capturing the world. And so it's like, you'll be shocked by with clarity. How much potential people can see because they're going to be working on it and recognize it. Then you like, have investor conversations. And it's like.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, dude. But that's summer. And so it's like you have to be able to essentially oscillate in in these different ways.
Ankur Toshniwal: That that summer is like something that I yeah 100%. I feel like we're like, yo know, like everything we thought we were gonna do. And like, you know, we're like, Hey, we're gonna do some. q. 1, q, 2, q. 3. It's like, that's all happening in q, 1 like.
Jake Gutstein: You literally, you're asking like that's like, when we talk about in, you just need to figure out your own system systems. And I can say a word on this, too, like a little bit deeper, because I think we should actually double click on it. But like
Jake Gutstein: that, we talk about bad uses of time. Bad uses of time is figuring out what you're going to do in September, like, it's like, it's not
Jake Gutstein: it doesn't help you guys right now, now, for the time being, what it sounds like is like, you've essentially used that as a proxy. For what are the opportunities that exist for the business today. And then can we create a prioritized order and like you're doing? And then you're knocking out to your point like, it's all in q 1. Because what you have essentially done is done a different activity than what you guys were actually thinking you were spending time on. So it's like nice to be aware of that, and then kind of put things in place.
Jake Gutstein: Neil, are you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I I was gonna say, just to call out something in the chat. I don't know if everyone picked up on what you meant by that summer? I certainly did. But if you don't mind just explaining that phrase.
Jake Gutstein: With with regards to what I just like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like the whole notion of that summer meeting that it's just that's just the summer, not the big vision for the business. I I think it's important to clarify, because not everybody understood.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When you just said that some.
Jake Gutstein: What I. What I mean is like,
Jake Gutstein: this is CEO call. I see that they they have their. They have their team. But like we actually a huge unlock for us as a business. It's funny it came up last night. Actually, it was like.
Jake Gutstein: where do people play like, where do people want to play? Not everybody needs to sit in every element of the business. And
Jake Gutstein: that doesn't mean that you're going to gatekeep.
Jake Gutstein: But what it does mean is like our CTO kicks ass and hates thinking about the next thing that we're doing in product like it's just it stresses the hell out of him, because his whole thing is how implementation and how to de-risk, and all this stuff. And so like.
Jake Gutstein: he actually, at this point, he does think in terms of, like the big picture for the business as he sees it.
Jake Gutstein: But the what he actually in time has kind of signaled that he wants to be aware of is like this, step in kind of the next couple of steps. And he's okay with a little bit of this like ambiguity. But like, if I sat down, it's like whenever he sees something totally new. He's like dude. You want me to build Google, and it's like, No, I don't. But like we're, gonna you'll get to where you actually need to be activated. And again.
Ankur Toshniwal: Also kind of maybe. Yes, at the same time, like.
Jake Gutstein: Answer is, yes, but he doesn't need to hear that. And so it's like, just kind of figuring out what people want. Another thing that I'll say is,
Jake Gutstein: People talk about startups in terms of risk, and too rarely do they talk about startups in terms of ambiguity, being comfortable and acknowledging the fact that there is ambiguity in this is extremely important. So a word on that and a word on systems. There are 2 things that you're doing. There is the work output. There's the work that you're doing, and then there's the way you are shipping the way you do the work that you do.
Jake Gutstein: And these 2 things are actually independent, fairly independent of one another. I mean, I guess, that the work that you do is a result of the way that you do the work that you do. But from a system perspective, both need to constantly change and be optimized.
Jake Gutstein: Does that make sense?
Jake Gutstein: It's uncomfortable, because, like things are going to break down. And it's like it's never anyone's fault. It's the fault of the system. It's the fault of design.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, I mean, I get is it is it's not completely. You can't de-risk it also completely. You can't de-risk the fact that there's Ambi like, there's gonna that's a part of it, too. Right? Like, obviously, you can mitigate as much as possible with good systems. But
Ankur Toshniwal: probably at least some portion of it is fundamental. Or you think it's actually not. It's not even inherent. It's just a.
Jake Gutstein: Ambiguity, I would say, is a bam.
Jake Gutstein: It's a reaction. The way that, like it exists. But what is the perception? And what's the response?
Ankur Toshniwal: Gotcha. So in your mind, if if you set up a good enough system, a good enough game plan, a strong enough strategy, then this can remove ambiguity.
Jake Gutstein: This is. This is awesome because it's actually a great no what I'm saying is you will not be able to set up a strong enough system to mitigate it. And that's okay. What's the next step that you can take to make the system more resilient.
Ankur Toshniwal: So. Yeah, but there is a theoretical version of the system that could remove it is that kind of like. So you're moving.
Jake Gutstein: While there is a theoretical version of the system, we live in a real world.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Gotcha gotcha cool?
Jake Gutstein: Thing is important, more so. People set concrete goals. This is what we're doing in Q. 4.
Jake Gutstein: I believe in magnitude and direction.
Jake Gutstein: Is this like local like? Think in terms of like local maximum, or like, are we? Is this the right direction to be headed in? And is this a large enough step change to actually make the positive change.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, makes sense. Thanks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Neural defend.
piyushverma: Hey? Hi, Jake, I have a question here. I'm Shiva. My question is, I will come to the straight point. Actually, because most of the people has wonderful questions.
piyushverma: I want to understand your thought process at the initial stage, you know, like you have taken such a boring idea into wonderful and successful. You know, like, you are kind of a superhero here. Actually, I I hope that you know that that's the motor of this meeting also. I really appreciate that. And my 1st question is, how you know, like,
piyushverma: what is your thought process when you are started initially. And this, this is a problem that you want to solve. And this problem going to, you know, exist forever. And that's the 1st question and second question is, you know, like any chat Gpt or any kind of air models is kind of threat for you. Right? You know, with. The people can take a photo. And they can, you know, like they can prompt like, Hey, I just want to make a recipe out of it, and it can. You know, it can provide the solutions right?
piyushverma: So I want to understand your initial thought process. And I also want want to understand your how we are handling the competitors.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I love this question.
Jake Gutstein: No, that's.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is, this is good. Yeah, put him on the spot.
Jake Gutstein: The initial thought process is like there was just an energy around what we were doing and the people I was building around. I have a really good team. And so it makes it easy to work when the people are bought in and like again, things break down. It's okay. We ultimately end up solving for it. But like
Jake Gutstein: me and my initial like, it started like I was working a full time job. And this is basically like a social club for us, and, like one thing leads to the next, leads to the next. And all of a sudden, like I'm founding. I didn't even like I. This wasn't a it wasn't a core piece of my identity. I, personally didn't know how to cook. This is actually the least efficient way for me personally to learn how to cook. But like it's it just
Jake Gutstein: materialized.
Jake Gutstein: So I'm like, happy to go into that history a little bit more. But like, yeah, I didn't.
Jake Gutstein: I didn't do run the tam, sam and psalm and say, like, this is what we need to. In fact, you go through the stage where you're like. This is how you validate a startup. And it's like, Yeah, no, it's like we. Just. We found this. We validated that there was demand for it, so, like people would be willing to pay for a solution. And then from there we built. We started building zest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I said, and I said, no to you.
piyushverma: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Remember. So he applied to techstars, and I turned him, turned him away.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and after that I think we did.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Monthly. Jtbd. Calls right.
Jake Gutstein: There was work to be done before that. But yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And well, I guess what I'm saying, though, is like your your evolution of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like. So for some reason, you were committed to still building this business.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right. It wasn't 1 that like when you experience hardship, you just released and said, Okay, I'll go solve a different problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So how did you persist through a lot of rejection? Because I know all of these founders here already have experienced customer rejection and investor rejection, but they're going to experience a whole lot more, both and and beyond. So how do you kind of gear up to to do that? As you think about your motivation for this company, and what it does.
Jake Gutstein: That's it's noise. So the way that I did it
Jake Gutstein: from a functional like a standpoint where I can like share is. And this is, I don't think that Neil necessarily even knows, because this is like you don't share this. I don't know that my team necessarily knows this unless they had to was basically like
Jake Gutstein: what you're describing, Neil. If I thought about that every day like we wouldn't get anything done. In fact, over time, like I've had to train myself, and in your the thoughts will, you will have emotional reactions. But the question is how quickly you can come back to what you're actually doing and so
Jake Gutstein: I, I set future milestones based on the current state of the business. And if we pass that milestone and we hadn't, or if we pass that time, and we hadn't accomplished that milestone, then the business wouldn't be a business.
Jake Gutstein: We passed every milestone, and I haven't had one of those in a while. Like. So it reached a point. I think the last one was a team like being able to pay ourselves
Jake Gutstein: like livable wage but like
Jake Gutstein: having those moments and understanding what your timeline is such that you can go and just do was really important for us, because then you don't get as bogged down. And will this won't this like? It's like, who cares? It's it's already set, like, I already know, when this is going to happen or not, and then just make sure that it's a reasonably set
Jake Gutstein: goal, like you're going to do more than what you think you can do, but like in full candor like, that's how that's what I had used to have. And we hit everything. And so we even did that. Then also within the business. It was like.
Jake Gutstein: my this kind of unlocked Graham, my co-founder, who is very like much in the frenzied moment thing, and it was like.
Jake Gutstein: how long do you need to do this to see if it'll work? It's like 3 months. It's like, then stop coming to me every day and talking to me, whether about whether or not it's working. And like it's you you get there in
Jake Gutstein: in in time, like, then it's like, Okay, literally, 3 months circle the day, and we'll talk about it then. We've kind of run stuff like that.
Jake Gutstein: AI is is a huge tailwind for our business. So we're not a recipe company. We aren't, for like an in the moment thing, what we are is an operating system for the overall experience around food and in your house.
Jake Gutstein: And so we're actually going to leverage these tools to bring them in and create an organization around when you're want to gain a deeper context or knowledge around food versus like what you're cooking, when the only experience that people don't use us is or will not use us is the like chicken that you just like slap on a skill like things that you do automatically. You don't need any real solution for. But when it comes to like generating all this stuff. We're going to incorporate that, and then the product itself will be
Jake Gutstein: tailored to people's lives around the around kitchen and around the home
Jake Gutstein: the one offs are for Chat Gpt. But you know it's a great question as well, and I can do this. I can cut this share like this is a question that me and my team asked ourselves. And so it becomes like, all right. That's a great question.
piyushverma: I don't.
piyushverma: I have a follow up question also. Yeah. You know, in yesterday's session we had a you know, like neil gave us a big lecture on customers, actually, you know, like a customer doesn't need a drill, but they need a hole, only, you know, in in your you know, in your company product, the customer need a you know, they want to cook. They want their cook to. I mean, they want to cook. Actually, so does thing. You are operating always kind of thing.
Jake Gutstein: So this is awesome. This is awesome cause
Jake Gutstein: this is where you have to start in. This understanding is a customer doesn't want a drill. They want a hole in the wall. They don't want a hole in the wall. They want something to hang a painting, and they don't want something to hang a painting. What they need is to something to occupy a functional, emotional, a social purpose in a space.
Jake Gutstein: And then you can get into that. So people don't want to cook, they want to be a better, significant other. It's like that 4 day old chicken and rice I used to cook for myself totally cool, but like, give it to the person I care about, and it's like I'm FBI's most wanted, like, what are you doing with your life? It's like you talk about. Someone goes to a job that they hate. They come home. They watch like summer house on Netflix. They're like scrolling through Tiktok on their phone. And in that moment, like we're hitting them with, what are you doing with your night? Take back your time.
Jake Gutstein: It's like talking to a health related event like literally like we were joking around and me and my one of my co-founders yesterday about this one, but like literally like blowing out the bathroom as a result of what you're eating your spouse, hating you for it and realizing something needs to change, and you don't know how
Jake Gutstein: or like a budgeting event. We lay it out like this will be triggered like I'm I'm getting married. This can be a variety of things. It's like, I'm getting married, and oh, shit! I'm getting like weddings are this much, and you lay out the credit card statement, and you realize how much you spend on Doordash, and you realize you cannot sustainably change. I can't go to chat, gpt, and solve for that
Jake Gutstein: right? So like it's like, once you kind of understand these those underlying pieces like, that's the real momentum. And that's also when, like
Jake Gutstein: I forgot who brought up this point. It looks like you dropped. But like, that's like, when you have that
Jake Gutstein: knowledge, you're going to be able to compete in a crowded space because they're just trying to teach people. There are things trying to teach people how to cook, and the chat Gpt is a tailwind for them. They're like rest. Me just passed, I think 7 million AR. They are like my competitors are booking me investor calls now. It's nuts I haven't told Neil about this I got. I'm getting. I got reached out to by a couple of funds in Chicago. And I'm like you fucking jokers.
Jake Gutstein: Yes.
Jake Gutstein: it's like, it's like, Oh, we haven't spoken in a while. It's like, you guys like what is actually happening here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, yeah, we're we're we are creatures of habit, and and investors are are just herd. We follow the herd all the time. Dude. But no, but what you just brought up. Did you all notice what Jake just did?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He just gave you his jobs to be done? Insights about his customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but he delivered it in a way that demonstrated his connection and understanding of it, and empathizing with it in a way that he knew many of you would resonate with and connect to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's what he did. So what? I see a lot with startups at this stage are people who observe a company. They go. Okay, what do they do? Oh, this is what they do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, isn't that easy to do this way as well? So they'll they'll basically translate the solution or features of a product, and go well, that can be done in this way, that way or this way, too. So it must be tough for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I think what Jake just demonstrated was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you should not be competing on the grounds of what features my product offers exclusively, and instead.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my depth of understanding of the situation and circumstance that my user is struggling through. So when I insert myself and the best version of an answer for them, knowing their context. That's what differentiates my business. So hearing Jake talk like that makes me want to write another check, you know, as an investor, because I'm getting excited about him, having an advantage of understanding and knowledge and not just technical capacity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think it's really powerful and something I want, you know, everybody to learn how to do. And then this also tees up Jake. Another opportunity, because you got the same question
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we were in when you were in San Francisco in November, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I didn't know this was like unscripted, unprompted.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you pulled up the research you had been doing on your competition.
Jake Gutstein: Right?
Jake Gutstein: So this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's a good tee up for that, if you're interested in sharing, but just thought I would.
Jake Gutstein: Do you guys still have the screen or no?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You. We can see your screen.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, yeah, so this is actually that we're like we looked into when this is a Meg to your question earlier, this is this is us we would call a small hire job. So a consumer
Jake Gutstein: job like when you're hiring a thing in a moment rather than exchanging money which, like
Jake Gutstein: sequentially comes after figuring out why there's money being exchanged. But like these were small hires for like, why, when? Why? How are people using chat, Gpt to cook, and like, we found that there are literally like 3 things or sorry 4 things. And not only that we also then created like affordances, so like. We now have the design understanding for how to solve for these things within our product, for when we want to do it, we can just like pull the trigger and go for it.
Jake Gutstein: and so yeah, it literally is like, people generally go to chat, gpt, it's like I have a ton of food going bad. No idea how to make something. That's not my usual staple I know what I want to eat, but the Internet doesn't have a version that matches like my personal diet. I have parts of a meal in mind, but I need help turning it into a full meal.
Jake Gutstein: and then I have a specific project in mind, but I don't want it to take too much time.
Meg Hall: Thanks. But Jay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What most founders do. In my opinion, you tell me if I'm wrong. Here is this research that we're looking at on the screen, that you did right here. One, I want you to explain to this group how you did it like, what approach you? Take
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this insight.
Jake Gutstein: The best answer you will ever get. The best response that you will get from people is like that is easy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Exactly right. So so that that's what I mean. Like they in their head. They think they know the those things already, so they'll just say what they think it is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and go. Oh, that's that's what that's what people use. Chat, gpt for, or whatever. So why do you take so much extra time to do research, to do a write up, to share it with your team, to do so much in depth stuff. When you have all these other competing priorities with your business. Why is it worth it to do all of that rather than like, maybe, use your own instincts and and intuition.
Jake Gutstein: If you can't explain a process, you don't have a process right like.
Jake Gutstein: understand? You're of scattered mind. If, like somebody is asking you a question. You are rambling there. You don't have
Jake Gutstein: the necessary words for this
Jake Gutstein: once you do this, it's like I could guess.
Jake Gutstein: I could also guess.
Jake Gutstein: But it just isn't as effective. And it's also like I could run a survey. But then it's like the what if start popping into my now? I just talk to people, and this is literally what they told me, and it's like they told it to me so many times that we were like, Oh, you're this person, and so it just
Jake Gutstein: it it it kind of. Once you start doing it, it becomes really hard not to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, you say it modestly. You just talk to people, but you didn't just talk to people. You had a very structured systemic approach to how you spoke to them, and what you asked, and what you learned and what you documented.
Jake Gutstein: What we asked, not what we asked right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, yeah, yeah, of course. Yeah, you know how that is.
Jake Gutstein: Right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. So we got Paria, and then Chris.
Paria: Yes, Hi, Jake, and thank you so much for sharing your great time like thoughts about like how to run the business and etc. So when it comes to like the main topic of today's discussion how to run to the business. So I have a point here, and I wanted to get your recommendation about that. So when it comes to like running a business, I always think that we have 2 features here. One is like
Paria: spending time to make the product ready for the market, and the other side is penetrating to the market Asap. So if we wanna like, think about these 2 features. What do you think is like? Has the higher priority in the beginning? Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: I've typically found. And if you talk to this is where like this is the end of one part of it. And I would talk to exited founders as well typically exited founders on their second startup. A pattern, I've noticed is that they focus almost entirely on distribution
Jake Gutstein: and not on getting the product ready. Because if you're closing sales and mean, and people are using the thing, then it means that you have a thing that is worth being used versus like running.
Jake Gutstein: What you think is gonna be used, what you think actually isn't. And so
Jake Gutstein: I would focus almost all of your energy on that second category with the knowledge that in executing it you're actually going to end up building out that 1st piece, you'll do service to it.
Paria: Oh, that's awesome. Thank you for sure.
Chris Wong: Hey, Jake? Nice to meet you. Thanks for coming out.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, no, for sure. Did you co-found a company with your brother?
Chris Wong: I did. Yeah. Oh, yeah, I do.
Jake Gutstein: I remember I remember that pitch.
Chris Wong: Oh, okay, I'm glad it resonated with you because you remembered it. Yeah, I got a quick question. This kind of goes a little bit into like the process, because you've gotten takeaways on like when a customer leaves your product and you've gotten feedback on like. When Gen. AI went to go into this, and you've been able to cone it into like 4 different key statements. I'm curious, like as a founder, and you're kind of figuring out whether. And this also applies to like when you're building a feature or a product like, how do you decide what the feature is, or add that
Chris Wong: how do you weigh between? You know, you got a lot of couple good insights. How much more interviews do you need to like? Actually like close the loop there like you're always kind of pushable, like I have. You know, time is critical, but I also want to see this through and and get enough.
Jake Gutstein: I mean, engage genuinely with the process, which is to say that for any cycle of research like engage genuinely with it in like 8 to
Jake Gutstein: 12 is like going to get you where you need to go. You're going to have to be comfortable, being bad. So you're gonna lose like I mentioned, you lose efficiency at every stage in the process. You're going to lose efficiency in conducting and clustering from these interviews. Given that you haven't done this activity before? So just recognizing that it may be a little bit more than 10. But you will realize again if there aren't scripted answer, if like, you're genuinely kind of unpacking the sequence of events that went down understanding the language being used like.
Jake Gutstein: you're going to start getting really similar stories between interviews 8 and 12.
Jake Gutstein: And at that point, then you're like, Okay, we have enough to cluster, and after you have enough to cluster, then you create requirements and you execute.
Chris Wong: Got it. Yeah, that's really helpful. Yeah, thank you.
Jake Gutstein: For sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I'll get super tactical about that next week. Chris, during my next 2 workshops.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, man.
Anthony De Silva: Hi, Jake! Thanks for thanks for being here.
Jake Gutstein: For sure.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, I had a question. So we're a real estate tech company. And our clients are basically repeat, customers are realtors. They act as a referral to home buyers. So the home buyer pays for our product. But our referral is a distribution is through realtors. Basically. There are times.
Jake Gutstein: The the customer is the home buyer, but the realtor is the consumer.
Anthony De Silva: Correct. Yes. So the one who pays is yeah, the home buyer. So there are times when
Anthony De Silva: their incentives are not fully aligned in the sense the realtor's incentive is to get the deal done regardless of like what the inspection finds right. That's their incentive, whereas for the home buyer. It's finding the most comprehensive for us. Like to do the most comprehensive inspection finding out what the issues are.
Anthony De Silva: So how do you like when
Anthony De Silva: we're trying to pitch to realtors like, how do you
Anthony De Silva: like solve for that sort of misalignment and incentives? Because, you know, they they want us to like.
Jake Gutstein: I don't know enough about this, so I'm like asking out of curiosity, why are you pitching to realtors if they aren't paying you.
Anthony De Silva: So there are typically the people. So like
Anthony De Silva: typically the home buyer works with a realtor, and they usually go with the anybody who like the realtor recommends. They don't. They don't really look up like who the who the inspectors are, because they they're not. They don't feel comfortable enough to like knowledgeable enough find who the inspectors are. So so they typically go with whoever the realtor recommends. So that's why we're like that. We've realized that that's going to be our like easiest distribution.
Jake Gutstein: Then going directly to a buyer as a smaller company.
Jake Gutstein: you do the inspections, or you help make sure that they have the best possible inspector.
Anthony De Silva: We, we have independent contracts who perform the inspection for them.
Anthony De Silva: So there have been times like the realtor is gonna ask, like.
Anthony De Silva: we do want a thorough inspection, but we do want the inspector like explaining, or like scaring away the buyer.
Anthony De Silva: So how do you like solve for problems like that, and like, when the incentives are not allowed.
Jake Gutstein: We could meet outside of this just to unpack that more because I don't genuinely know enough about the space to know if this is a workable like. Is this an intractable difference between the 2, or is it more like a toy like a child? A children's toy? If you think about it like the customer being the parent
Jake Gutstein: wants something that's like the most safe, sterile thing, and the Kid is going to want the absolute opposite of of all of this stuff. And it's like these things. And the kid is the consumer. They actually ultimately end up using the thing. So you essentially have to circle the square on that friction, and I can't tell if this is one of those situations, or if there is just a different way to like
Jake Gutstein: view distribution which may be dictated by
Jake Gutstein: cause. It it sounds like the person who buys is
Jake Gutstein: to a certain extent it goes realtor to customer, back to Realtor
Jake Gutstein: Realtor has to tell. Make the person aware of the fact like, is there a reason that you're not just kind of advertising to people who would be
Jake Gutstein: about to sell a home or buy a new home like.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, we really haven't tested that yet. We haven't had a marketing budget. Obviously. So like, we've been like trying to distribute like through realtors talking to them face to face.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, that's probably something we can test, but also, like in our experience from like home buyers that we've spoken to. They always pick. The realtors recommend well, 90% of the time they pick realtors, recommendations for lenders, for for home services, things like that.
Anthony De Silva: So.
Jake Gutstein: Right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It sounds like you should go deeper separately on this one.
Jake Gutstein: We we this like, and I'm more than happy to meet on it, because, like what you may, fine
Jake Gutstein: is like.
Jake Gutstein: that may be a trade off that you actually have to actively make, which is a difficult one to acknowledge. But a realtor doesn't want a good inspection. A realtor wants a stamp of approval. And so it's like.
Jake Gutstein: this is something that's definitely going to be worth looking into. You can't make a realtor want to scare off the their 2%, or whatever they end up getting.
Anthony De Silva: You know.
Anthony De Silva: Well, thank you. Thank you.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, no, for sure
Jake Gutstein: or understanding their upside like, what are the tools like? You may just have to position this differently for them. Saying, like the close rate on whatever I don't know we we can get into it. We we can definitely
Jake Gutstein: nerd out there.
Anthony De Silva: Thanks.
Vivian: Hi, Jake, thank you so much. All the questions that are being asked are super relevant. So it's great to feel like we're gonna solve these problems together. I wanna just talk about the speed urgency and the prioritization. Something you said earlier about. You're never, not shipping anything. I was wondering if you could clarify that like, at what? At what stage are you? Never not shipping something? Or is there a certain degree of like done this?
Vivian: And then, just like for some context, we're building the future car shopping experiences. And one of the things that's top of mind for us, like what keeps us up at night is the usage rate of sales people at dealerships using our product? And we have like good numbers. But then we've seen that the numbers have come down so while we're going to be away for like a couple of weeks at a time. Now, instead of not being like in front of dealerships.
Vivian: What we've seen is like they wanted a shorter version of their guest sheet process. So we've shown that down to anywhere from like 8 to 12 questions, and they wanted more questions. So we added more. And now they're telling us that the quiz is feeling too long.
Vivian: So and they're reverting back to their paper geshe process which they hate. So now we're trying to decide. In the next 2 weeks, while we're gonna while we're going down to San Francisco like, do we just give them a 3 step process? Which kind of like doesn't really balance with the management is wanting from us. But the sales people who are the end users want a shorter experience, so.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, this is like a robust design of experiment type question. But it's I guess.
Jake Gutstein: Are you guys familiar with? Bob, Mesta, is that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're about to be. They're about to be. They? They did the mattress interview, but they don't. They don't know most of it, so they don't know about like sizzle yet, or anything like that, either.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that's not for me. But I
Jake Gutstein: so this is this is our company. Wiki, I guess, for context at zest. If you do a repeatable process, then you write an article about it, and it doesn't need to be a complete article, because then you iterate on it over time, the way you work, the way you do the work that you do. And so with the wiki, it's like, we say, like 2 or more times and make sure that we can pass the bus test. I don't. We don't say it like that explicitly, but one of the things that I was prompted to
Jake Gutstein: write up our What are in here, which, like I called the thought playbooks and they essentially are like my co-founder, pushed me to write down a lot of
Jake Gutstein: this type of work. What you're describing is like red versus green line development, which is like kind of a written up thing. But like, the idea is basically that, like, you are building more questions, that to get the feedback that you need less. And then you're building less to get the feedback that you build more. You're going to drive yourself nuts because it's always going to feel like you're one iteration away from having the right answer. And like you, the reality is like, there is no right
Jake Gutstein: answer. So it's a highly. This kind of silly graph down here just essentially shows that it is a highly costly thing to continuously change things later and later in the process. I think that, like
Jake Gutstein: what I'm interested in in this survey idea is that it is highly controlled. There's like variables that you can put into it. How many questions does it mention this versus this like, we can essentially like you can essentially break it out to see what are the most impactful
Jake Gutstein: methods that are being used to solve, like or to get people using your your product?
Jake Gutstein: it's hard because this is like a tip of the iceberg type question that that you're that you're asking like,
Jake Gutstein: with regards to like when something is done well enough you mentioned you are looking in terms of like key performance, and it's like, Understand the revenue format like what drives revenue for the business. And then what are they going to be? The things below those things that you have to focus on? So for ours, like our business focuses on 5 numbers. It's like cost per trial, trial, start rate, trial, conversion, rate retention, and then, like cooks, first, st to second.
Jake Gutstein: cook right? And like, we just have someone accountable for each of those numbers. And we'll like
Jake Gutstein: there. We understand generally the direction that they need to head in. And so we experiment to move them in that direction. I think usage makes sense. But like just making sure that it's the right number to focus on. And then within that, then it's like, Okay, what are the experiments that we're actually running to move the thing? And are we spending our own wheels like convincing ourselves that we're doing impactful work which you're going to deal with that frustration around. But you do want to dig out like you're feeling it. And whenever you feel the thing breaking down, that's the time to like, maybe
Jake Gutstein: turn the screw a little bit and like, try to get a little bit tighter.
Vivian: Okay. Thank you.
Jake Gutstein: Does that make sense? Because, like, you're
Jake Gutstein: the actual, then experiment that you're talking about has like a lot that we could talk about within.
Vivian: Yeah, I feel like doing the work that we're doing right now is gonna get us there. It just feels like very urgent for us to figure out we're excited to figure it out.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, I mean to be clear. It is urgent. And like also.
Vivian: We wanna do it right?
Vivian: Ask the right questions.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. So I think that the way that I think about it is, how do you maximize the amount of learning that you can do in the fewest iterations. And again, I do think that what you're describing does map fairly cleanly onto like a design experimental design system, because, like.
Jake Gutstein: they don't know what how to ask for what they need like. If they did, then they would have it like, so it's just like they think they're seeing certain behavior. And it's like just separating the actual noise from this experience and making sure that we're isolating like what they actually need.
Vivian: Yeah. And it feels like those iterations will take longer than we want to be able to run those experiments. So it's a balance of that as well.
Jake Gutstein: Right? Right like literally, it is cost in terms of time, but or capital. But, like what it really is, is time like you can get more money in the bank account. You cannot get more time on the watch.
Vivian: Right.
Vivian: Thank you.
Jake Gutstein: For sure we we can follow up on that one, too, if interested, but.
Vivian: Definitely.
Antoine: It looks like we're going to use a lot more than 2 h of your time if you're willing to to lend it over the the time of the program. Just.
Jake Gutstein: What I would say is, if I can be tactical to anybody ever like.
Jake Gutstein: please let me know if you're ever looking for like support on the other side. I also want to be available, like, if I can be tactful, please don't hesitate to reach out, and if I ever don't get back to you like, just bump me. It's not like I want to help anybody if I can help. So please let me know.
Antoine: Watch out what you're getting yourself in for.
Jake Gutstein: I, and and
Jake Gutstein: hasn't come to bite me yet. The issue is that you get a call like like with me and Neil. I think you know it's like you just kept coming back.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. He was relentless. It's true.
Antoine: Yeah, yeah. Okay, so question for you, how do you run your business?
Jake Gutstein: It's a good question. What? What element of the business.
Antoine: I think I mean you. You're clearly you're clearly intellectualizing. And your systems person. And I'm just curious to know the core systems that you have in your business the frequency that you operate them at
Antoine: and obviously, obviously, I know it's a larger company. Now you're you're like 5, 10 people. So maybe kind of just help us conceptualize. And if you want to give us, like the the 3 to 5 people version of the how you run your business when it's a business of 3 to 5 people, it's even better. But however, you want to take it.
Jake Gutstein: So, Vivian, just like hit on a really important kind of feeling that you guys are gonna get which is like this isn't working for us anymore. And we need to change something that's gonna happen constantly. I'm sorry if you're picking up background noise here hopefully that passes. But
Jake Gutstein: in those moments. That's when you change. So it's like all of what you see was seated
Jake Gutstein: or comes as the result of tech stars like this. All happened causally after that, and so, like this, it kind of breaks down. We have, I would say, this little area of the wiki, and this is probably the core. So I think, should hit at the heart of the problem. One is
Jake Gutstein: a team charter
Jake Gutstein: that we uphold very closely principles, mission statement and values like these are things that we aspire to live by. They break down like the 2 things, though. Don't forget is show up to this shit on time and uphold your verbal commitments, and if you can't uphold your verbal commitment, say as early as possible that you can't do it, because what that's done is, build trust with it through like throughout the company and like. Then it's like, if I'm off here, fight over here fighting these battles. You're going to be over there fighting your battles. We have, like
Jake Gutstein: other things to drill down in, but like this is the essence of zest. Then it comes to like.
Jake Gutstein: you know, when shit doesn't work, and it's like.
Jake Gutstein: Why didn't this shit like? Why didn't this work? And there's a little bit of resentment sometimes? And sometimes it's like a little bit of shame, because, like, I'm not doing my job well or like they're not doing their job well. So like we have a system around this called Aors, areas of responsibility.
Jake Gutstein: What it is. It works for every project. So this is on the highest level of the business, but like it works, for every project has a directly responsible individual, and then backups. What that just means is that the buck stops. There's accountability. The buck stops with somebody. It's like you stand up and you say, like, Hey, this was my thing, or it wasn't and it breaks down across every vertical within the business, and so the 1st version of this was pulled from
Jake Gutstein: the great CEO, within which is a book with a terrible title, but several very actionable
Jake Gutstein: things. So I would recommend that everyone read it and then, like, we incorporated other pieces over time like skill. Video Nar is not something that was in the great CEO within.
Jake Gutstein: we have it
Jake Gutstein: written like this we meet. I want to say every 8 weeks, synchronously, that past the most recent time was Tuesday, like we all meet up as a team. What's changed? What comes off the board? Where have these roles reversed or like, where is somebody now responsible, or they weren't responsible in the past. And what needs to be added. And when it's a big, we work through like kind of the friction around that in that synchronous meeting. And then we have a meeting later today, where, like
Jake Gutstein: for the bigger stuff, oh, I like. There was one area of the business that's developed fairly rapidly, and my CTO needed time to be like, I need to map this out a little bit more intricately.
Jake Gutstein: So it was like, cool go do that. We're literally gonna meet in an hour and talk about it.
Jake Gutstein: so that's aors shipping product is fixed time, variable scope. This is was originally seeded by shape up, which is, the Bible, of how base camp does work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll introduce him to that later, too.
Jake Gutstein: We've evolved it over time. We call our system age up. It broke like shape up broke down for us in a way that the creator of the framework, actually reaffirmed was the normal way that it breaks down for smaller teams. So we've created
Jake Gutstein: a version of it that is more effective for us. And this is literally like, Hey, this is how we work.
Jake Gutstein: and so that shipping product this is just like a little pitch like you're at a party. And like we needed this. So this was actually a tech stars thing. Where it's like
Jake Gutstein: we're like sitting there and like nobody can describe.
Jake Gutstein: Damn! I don't. Wanna I don't. Wanna the one founder that's not here is the one that did it. But it was like
Jake Gutstein: we are bridging the gap between the way that people use the Internet and perplexity for. And then he said, a bunch of shit that I didn't understand. And like I, it's like.
Jake Gutstein: I'm sure I'm kind of pea brain. So like it's kind of on me. But like ironing that out during program is going to be critical, it'll change over time. But, like
Jake Gutstein: hmm, I say, I don't have the right language for this.
Jake Gutstein: so I'm gonna say it wrong. But no one cares. It's remarkable how little they all care, and it's like you gotta be so tight
Jake Gutstein: in terms of again. It's like the same with customer level pro like I I if I need your attention like I, it's all on us. It's all within like us to make sure that we're kind of maintaining it to the best of our ability, because even after that, most people won't care.
Jake Gutstein: So that's that
Jake Gutstein: jobs to be done, research is within our core. So those are the research projects we've done. This is a library.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Do you mind giving them a quick sneak? Preview.
Jake Gutstein: Of.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You mentioned it verbally, but, like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the the why before the why looks like the top link, there.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Let's see.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when people joins us they they get on boarded to understand the customer, you know, insights at this company right.
Jake Gutstein: Th, that's right. So what we do is we? We have, we obviously show them this. But then, like, literally, we just go and like grab people who want to learn how to cook. And we're like, we'll sit them down with this sheet right in front of them. And we're like, listen to these 3 like we're just me and sav my co-founder. We're gonna run 3 interviews. And you're just gonna sit there. And it's like they're like this is okay, this is weird. And then, like, you go from there.
Jake Gutstein: we also have.
Jake Gutstein: This library.
Jake Gutstein: So this is like, we're a food Company. So it's labeled my main course dessert after dinner, mint but like, it's literally just like
Jake Gutstein: product, a lot like product building building a game
Jake Gutstein: personal operating with, like this book we literally just mentioned. This is a fantastic book by Bob, like, really, really, really tight, really good. And then, you guys, I'm sure, are going to read lovers, or have been exposed to it as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My! It looks just like my syllabus.
Jake Gutstein: Hell, yeah, I wonder why? But yeah, this is
Jake Gutstein: yeah, I guess I don't need to share this. But this is kind of a more in depth. Breakdown of jobs as written by me again, like pulled from. You have all the material like firsthand knowledge.
Jake Gutstein: and then this is just a thing that we ended up creating where it was like talking past each other. So one thing, this is actually the result of 2 breakdowns. But like you just don't lose time on human
Jake Gutstein: things, but it's like important, like you, only you can't look past it. You have to do it by respecting the individuals of the team. And so this is how everybody on the team likes to give and receive feedback and then within the thought playbook. There's how we fight somewhere, and it's like making sure that you're adhering to these things.
Jake Gutstein: As the as the like basis it. I can't tell you. It's 5 bullet points. It totally changed the way that, like we are debating things within zest, like, literally, because it's like, I don't know. You don't need to know. I restate what you're hearing back at the person so that they can clarify, because when you say it wrong, they will help you understand it, and then like fighting the urge to be like, no, it's like, no, because, like, why are you saying no, and recognizing sometimes it's because you don't want it, but like other times, it's
Jake Gutstein: for for another reason.
Jake Gutstein: Antoine was that kind of helpful, and then it goes deeper, based on the you know, we got different
Jake Gutstein: areas of operation within zest.
Antoine: Super helpful. Thank you.
Jake Gutstein: For sure.
Jake Gutstein: Neil's a cool. Can I run to the restroom quickly? Can we take like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's take a quick 5 min break.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we'll finish off with 20 min and give we'll we'll get Alex Sweater anywhere anyone else to see? 5.
Jake Gutstein: I I did. I built in a little bit of time to go over if anybody is interested, or if we want to. So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Awesome. All right. Take care!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, Alex. Batter up.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, alright. So I think you touched a bit on this. But I wanted to have a bit more details on like.
Alex Nativelle: How do you think about
Alex Nativelle: doing new processes? So you said a bit like, Okay, when you when you realize that things are not working out. So like, okay, I need to do that.
Alex Nativelle: Is there any specific things? Because sometimes you're like things are not working out. But you have no idea why or what isn't working out exactly right. And so I was like, I have the feeling that you intellectualize a lot of things. So I thought that you
Alex Nativelle: had a lot of thinking about the processes and then implementing them. Then your answer might lead me to like, all right, we do things as soon as like we hit a roadblock. We think about processes so like, how is that whole process working for like zest? And you
Alex Nativelle: like, for instance, when did you? When did you like, okay, we need a document that illustrates how we fight. Right? Like, that's just an example. But like.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah,
Jake Gutstein: and that that's that's by the way, a really good way to ask the question is basically like, when's the last new system that you set up
Jake Gutstein: right. Cause. It's like these things break down
Jake Gutstein: in in certain moments. And it's basically like when
Jake Gutstein: it is gaining a perception. For when there's opportunity for change.
Jake Gutstein: it's all. It's like shipping a new feature.
Jake Gutstein: but you can't like similar to the feature building. There's a smart way to do it, and probably a less smart way to go about building it. And so is there a real
Jake Gutstein: struggle that necessitates change within the business?
Jake Gutstein: Were
Jake Gutstein: these. The way that we're shipping these builds are so confusing, for, like the engineers within the company, and like this is like we implemented shape up as shape up
Jake Gutstein: and it was like
Jake Gutstein: there was a lack of clarity over like why people were doing certain work, or like how certain things were getting bet on, and it was actually like too much. It was too many cooks in the kitchen. We had like a betting committee of the entire company to decide what to spend time on. But people didn't want like my CTO. I had already mentioned, didn't want to be spending time on that area of the business like that's not. He needs to help shape the work. But you would say he doesn't want to frame the work.
Jake Gutstein: And so I think it's a hard question to answer in the sense that
Jake Gutstein: as much as it is intellectually, it's a feel, for when things have broken down in an openness to honestly like, be receptive to things, because you might not go out and find the answer right away. But it's like this awareness of like, Hey, we're struggling where you would use in jobs language like, we're actively looking
Jake Gutstein: right. Right now, like there is a round experimentation it felt like, this is again back to the Vivian piece. But like we were running experiments and like things weren't really happening for us. And it's like, why
Jake Gutstein: we can't express what we learned.
Jake Gutstein: why can't we? And so like looking for a better way to run these experiments? And like one I the best way I can describe it found us, but like it's like, I can't. You have to essentially understand that these things are breaking down in order for something to come to you? You might try things out. They might not work like failure. Being an option is a really important thing to acknowledge as well.
Jake Gutstein: Cause you might try things out and then need to pivot out of them pretty quickly. But it's just about doing it in the lightest cost way possible. As well.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, I I apologize because there actually isn't. It's the struggle it literally is. Things are breaking down and just an acknowledgement of like we're not shipping the way that we want to be. People are like people's energies are being drained by an unnecessary
Jake Gutstein: friction within the company.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah. So just so that I understand correctly, we're like, all right, something is not right here. So we need to do a different process, either update our existing process or do another one. And then we try something. We're like, okay, think about this for like an hour, do something, test it out, and then go on from there.
Jake Gutstein: I would say, Yeah, I would say so like, it's so for the feedback piece of it, for example, it's like.
Alex Nativelle: Yup!
Jake Gutstein: How much time are we losing in meetings? Not talking about the point. And it's like
Jake Gutstein: it's so easy to be like we are talking about the point. I'm I'm speaking loudly about the point, but it's like, then you walk out of the call. It's like none of we didn't need to spend all this time here. I, we run a distributed. We're remote.
Jake Gutstein: and it's like the time that we're together. We need to make sure that it's actually, intentionally serve. It's by 2 purposed it. It helps to further the company. And it also is the important moments when we're together. And so it's like, how do we make sure that we're doing that? Oh, people are speaking past each other. Why are people speaking past each other? What's happening on these calls, and it's like, Oh, we came to realize that there are like a few concrete things that happen every time. And so we built around those.
Alex Nativelle: Alright! Thanks.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. No, for sure.
Sweta Mulji: Hey? Hi, Jake, thank you for being here. So. I lead customer success at sales play X. Right? I think my question to you is, how did you manage customer onboarding and retention back in the early days of your startup? And what has changed
Sweta Mulji: now that your business has evolved.
Jake Gutstein: I mean, like, it's like a ship of Theseus question, almost where it's like we replaced a plank of wood at a time. And like? Is it even still the same ship.
Sweta Mulji: No.
Jake Gutstein: when, when and why people are buying is the most fundamentally important thing. Build something for that. The biggest change that happened with zest onboarding, I would say, is like
Jake Gutstein: we came to realize that while we understood why people are coming to us, they didn't necessarily like totally know it. And so, because I can give an example, like if you're scrolling on Tiktok in that reality TV scenario. And you're in bed at night and you download an app to learn how to cook, and you get dropped in, and it's like, Why am I surrounded by rep like, what am I going to go to the grocery store. It's
Jake Gutstein: 2 am. And so it's like we had to create an onboarding that again to steal jobs language. We had a problem where people were coming from passive looking to buying really, really quickly, and then unable to actualize that energy.
Jake Gutstein: And onboarding is now significantly more focused on helping to qualify that lead almost, but on a consumer to consumer standpoint.
Jake Gutstein: bring you through.
Jake Gutstein: Why are you here?
Jake Gutstein: Where? Where do you want to go?
Jake Gutstein: All right, let's get you there together is like kind of the way. And that wasn't necessarily that really wasn't the shape of that initial process during techstars.
Sweta Mulji: Okay.
Sweta Mulji: Thanks.
Jake Gutstein: For sure. Did that answer the question.
Sweta Mulji: It's it! Yes.
Jake Gutstein: Let's go, Mark.
Mark Wong: Hey? How's it going, Jake? Thanks for all your time. And I really appreciate it. And I just had a question about going back to the processes that you have.
Mark Wong: I guess my question is mostly like what has been like the most impactful or the biggest unlock as a process.
Mark Wong: And how did you come about learning about it? Was it someone you asked, or was it like you read about it?
Mark Wong: In that case? Or, yeah.
Jake Gutstein: I would say, both for me. Like like you'll do both I do like trusted firsthand, and
Jake Gutstein: recommendations, particularly by people that have used it. It can help, you see, around corners. But sometimes people will literally be like, you're going to get recommendations from Neil that are going to be read the book. And so it's like, that's kind of both.
Jake Gutstein: there are just important ones. I don't know that there are
Jake Gutstein: some that are more important than others necessarily.
Jake Gutstein: so I'm just tossing this up to like.
Jake Gutstein: look here together, I think Aors is really important from an operating the business standpoint like this is like
Jake Gutstein: accountability at the company is necessary. You guys need to know it's not that you don't fight, you gotta fight, you gotta fight. But you gotta fight about the right things, and this puts you in a position to do so. And then the product building side of things was really key. We have another thing on the marketing side, which is also similar, but this is like Graham's situation.
Jake Gutstein: And how he runs his processes. And that was really important to stand this up. Once this has been stood up, it's changed over time. There used to be a ninja here, but he's lost a sense of fun, joy, and excitement. And so now it's just now it's just like a core report for him. But it's like those. The core functions of the team are like really critical to outline and have. So that you guys can start rowing in the same direction, but not do the same work.
Mark Wong: Hey? Thanks for the sponsor. I was just hoping that hopefully it wasn't like sharing the secret sauce. Kind of, you know, if there's some special process. So thank you.
Jake Gutstein: Neil. I don't know if I'm missing it. I will share any problem.
Jake Gutstein: No, any process, I mean my my and.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, my perception of that is that he he's a he's. He activates certain aspects of these processes over time. So maybe click on thought playbooks.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So like, he is perpetually doing stuff to understand his customer. Then he's trying to figure out how to prioritize and triage, using iterational diagrams to figure out what matters most and what to work on. Then he's spending time to figure out how to work on. You know, product and implementing the ideas and the insights that's prototyping to learn right and then implementing shape up and then figuring out the trick like. So when I look at this, and I think about Mark's question. I feel like there's something
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with this blend, this little stew of yours, of how you think and operate with your team. That answers it a little bit.
Jake Gutstein: So I think an important thing on the Aors like
Jake Gutstein: the pie can only get. So do you just use the phrase secret sauce.
Jake Gutstein: There's not going to be a secret sauce with you guys, but I really try to operate fairly transparently in general, and the reason for that is the pi can only get bigger like people operate as if there's a fixed
Jake Gutstein: capacity or fixed like amount to go of success to go around. But like, I don't believe that that's true.
Jake Gutstein: And so this, with regards to Aor Aor, was essentially me relinquishing control over 90% of the company. On a on a day to day basis, like people just do a lot of things. And what that does is they have. They feel agency to get shit done, and I don't need to like spend mental energy thinking about certain areas of the business, because they're really really good at what they do.
Jake Gutstein: And so I think that, like
Jake Gutstein: the things that can help you be definitive or move farther, faster. Are generally helpful. This is a stew of like, yeah, what is helpful
Jake Gutstein: for me like you could drill in on like prototyping. So like this is
Jake Gutstein: essentially like thinking past. Like the 1st thought we had talked about earlier, like, when things come up like, it's always oftentimes there is a a tremendous amount of bias towards the 1st idea that came up. And so it's like, okay, how do we actually unpack that? And then look at the the best or most effective idea given that we now have, it's just a new opportunity. But like, you don't need to
Jake Gutstein: use activation energy on that opportunity.
Jake Gutstein: this is yeah. So this is like, you know, one of these guys. But like I, another one, I guess that would be really easy is like bridging off of
Jake Gutstein: God. I right when I open it up in this context. I'm like all the it's dense. The interrelational diagram.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I'll I'll walk them all through it slowly, you know.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, yeah, for sure. So like this, this, for example, I found, is like, fairly effective in terms of how to find the natural priority for work.
Jake Gutstein: What I mean by that is like, if I have 4 ideas right now. I don't know what to do first, st and so I lay them all out like essentially portray them as nodes on a screen. And then I ask myself, like, for example, like does one help me? Does option one help me set up myself for success over option? 2. Does it help me set up myself up for success over option? 3. Does it help me with option? 4. Right? If it does, I draw an arrow going out of it.
Jake Gutstein: If it doesn't, I do nothing. I then go to option. 2, just 2. Help me with one does. Who to lead into 3 does 2 lead into 4. And I essentially draw diagrams that way. And at the end. I look like, okay, I have 3 arrows going into number one, and I have 2 arrows going out of it. Likewise I go around the entire circle and do it for that. And what I essentially come to is that
Jake Gutstein: what leads me to do the most is going to be the 4th thing I have 3 options going out of it. What leads me to do the second most I here determine that it's 3, because I have the fewest things that flow into it. If I do these other things first, st it won't necessarily help me up, for, like set me up for success as effectively, or it might block off like some
Jake Gutstein: learning that I could have had. So then I go to 3, and then 3 is going to lead both into 2 and one. And so those are like essentially seem equal equal options to me, and I can either make the decision between 2 things more easily than 4
Jake Gutstein: or you just go like, yeah, where you think it's going to be the most effective.
Jake Gutstein: So that's like, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So. Jake,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I will. I have like one final comment to offer up, and then we can wrap up with any final thoughts that you have for everyone. But it's something I said when you and I were in Detroit last weekend before I fell ill. I got really sick last weekend guys, I got food poisoning. It was awful, but I got good enough just in time for us to kick off program on Tuesday, so that was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: good, but Jake got to see me just like heeled over throwing up for the whole weekend while we were flying out together, do some strategic work on his business. So I say that to say, though, this reminded me of something
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I really like video games. I don't know if any other anybody else plays video games or ever. But I'm a big gamer. And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one thing that I think is really cool, that happens in like game design and and really great games and experiences is that when you start the game you get like kind of a tutorial of how to play. But it's not just a tutorial. The best versions of it are the ones where you start off
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as like the overpowered version of your potential self.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you start the game like I'll give you an analogy like if you play Star Wars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you start off as like a young Anakin. But the beginning of the game you're Darth Vader in the future, and you like, have all these powers, and you do all this crazy stuff. But then the game goes back after that moment, and you're like, all right. Now you gotta go become that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I feel like that may have just happened, and without intention, like, I'm showing what you just saw from Jake isn't something where you screenshot. And you're like, I need to do all of this now and implement all these systems for my team. For because we need to operate the way that he does
Neal Sáles-Griffin: no way
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right. This was a little bit of a teaser of some of the things that you could eventually incorporate and become. When it comes to how thoughtful and intentional you're running your company. And the approach you're taking to every decision that you make. So that was the intent of of this exposure and introducing you to Jake. Now, just to give you a sense of what could potentially be to come if you'd like to run your business in some type of way like this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's all I had. Jason.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, it'll come together over time. And you guys are gonna like, it's gonna be your own personal style around it as well.
Jake Gutstein: It's like, whatever is authentic to you guys, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright! Y'all so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: was this helpful? Is this a good use of couple of hours of time? Little exposure for the end of the week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Good. No.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. I I sent out a basecamp message asking for a little bit of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, information from you all. So on Monday we can hit the ground running and start building out our next steps with customer discovery work is one of the 1st
Neal Sáles-Griffin: kung fu skills that you'll be taught
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but there are many more to come, so Jake, I'll I'll leave any like parting words to you, and then we'll we'll bring this to a close.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah,
Jake Gutstein: I'd say, lean in, I'd say, like when he's gonna break down this customer like it's all easy to say, but like he's gonna be like, talk to 10 people you're gonna be like, I do not have the time or bandwidth to talk to 10 people. Force yourself past that 1st thought unpack. Why, you don't have the time to talk to those people potentially, if you can map out what you're doing, look at what you're doing, and then
Jake Gutstein: structure it such that you can actually get the work done.
Jake Gutstein: It's important.
Jake Gutstein: It'll help you keep pace
Jake Gutstein: more than more than anything else. I'm also like, if there are any other, follow up questions like I do. I did put a little bit of time or extra time on but if we're good, then we can also break.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So so what I'm hearing is is you can drop off. We're ending the call now, if you'd like to stick around for a little bonus encore conversation with Jake. Feel free to do so. I have to head into the city, but I'll I'll linger on the call just by voice, since I need to get ready to head out. But I'm but I'm here as well, and this afternoon.